Blog: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse (#17694)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/why-we-rebuilt-our-data-warehouse.md

Reviewer: Love this! Thanks for writing it @EDsCODE! And @Lizzieepton :)

---

> title: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse, and how it unlocks self-driving product

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse and how it unlocks self-driving products
```

date: 2026-06-17
rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - eric-duong
featuredImage: >-

>     https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog.com/contents/images/blog/data-warehouse-rebuild.png

Reviewer 2: probably a placeholder, but just a reminder to make sure

featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Data warehouse
    - Infrastructure
    - PostHog news
seo:

>     metaTitle: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse, and how it unlocks self-driving product

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    metaTitle: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse and how it unlocks self-driving products
```

    metaDescription: "PostHog rebuilt its data warehouse on DuckDB, moving away from ClickHouse to give data engineers the tools they actually want — and to power the next generation of AI-driven product development."
---

A few years ago we built a data warehouse based on ClickHouse. We had customers using it, connecting things like Stripe, Postgres, Hubspot to enrich their PostHog data. But our customers use cases matured quickly and they were asking for more than we were able to give.

Initially we were ok with the data warehouse being a piece of infrastructure that was strictly offered through PostHog, but two things happened sequentially:

1. Our warehouse could not interface with the breadth of existing "modern data stack" tools

> 2. With the acceleration of AI and agents, we want to provide the most natural and powerful solution, which required us to rethink how to isolate workloads and play well with database clients.

Reviewer 3: this wasn't really the reason in the beginning, it was to grow/scale with our customers needs. i know we want to emphasize self-driving everywhere, and yes, the data stack plugs into that nicely... **but we didn't rebuilt our data warehouse bc of ai, it was actually a different bet**. i think we should be transparent about that, while acknowledging that it fits into our ai vision nicely

Reviewer 4: fair. I think it's worth mentioning but could be asterisked in a way to point out how quickly things are moving and how it's become an important factor

This is the story of what wasn't working, what we've built instead, and the architectural bets we've made.

> ## How the original warehouse worked, and why it didn't

Reviewer 2: No to be annoying, but I think this second section is a much better introduction than the first. It currently acts as a second intro and covers a lot of the same ground with more specificity, but we could remove it and get to the action faster.

"PostHog's original data warehouse had a single goal: delay the moment a company needs to hire their first data engineer." is a great, powerful first line.

This would also address Anna's comment about AI. 

```suggestion
```

PostHog's original data warehouse had a single goal: delay the moment a company needs to hire their first data engineer.

> It did that job for a 20-person company where the CEO is still running their own SQL. You could build dashboards, answer business questions, and skip the six-month data infrastructure project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It did that job for a 20-person company where the CEO is still running their own SQL queries. You could build dashboards, answer business questions, and skip the six-month data infrastructure project.
```

The problem was the next chapter for these companies, here's the pattern we kept seeing:

- Company grows, product is going well, and PostHog is the centre of gravity for understanding how the business is doing.
- They hit 30-50 people and data questions get more complex, they hire a data engineer.

> - Data engineer looks at what's available, can't do everything they need, and starts exporting data to an external warehouse.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Data engineer looks at what's available in PostHog, can't do everything they need, and starts exporting data to an external warehouse.
```

> - PostHog becomes middleware. Events go in, data goes out. The centre of gravity for understanding the business moves somewhere else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- PostHog becomes middleware. Events go in, data goes out. The center of gravity for understanding the business moves somewhere else.
```

American english!

So what was stopping data engineers from being happy on our platform?

> ### Problem 1: HogQL

Reviewer 4: I'm still not a fan of this section as it's a knock to hogQL and in reality we have continued to invest a lot of time and resources to make it better. For anything in posthog, it's a great layer of control and security for our multitenant system.

(@Lizzieepton I know the original doc mentioned this just thinking out loud here as I'm reviewing)

Reviewer 5: +1 I would just lean on the 'duckdb query language - a widely used and ergonomic OLAP flavor of SQL'. Go harder on the pro here and less on the 'problem'

> ### Problem 1: HogQL

Reviewer 2: We say in the intro:

Our warehouse could not interface with the breadth of existing "modern data stack" tools

If this mostly a HogQL issue or something else? I'd like to learn more about that but I'm not getting it from this "problem" section.

Reviewer 2: I think this is an important point and I'm not getting the very much about it from the article overall.

> HogQL is our SQL dialect, a fork of ClickHouse SQL. It's great for fast, interactive product analytics queries that PostHog was built around. But it's not ideal for data warehouse work.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
HogQL is our SQL dialect, a fork of ClickHouse SQL. It's enabled us to safely build direct SQL querying on our multi tenant data infrastructure but Clickhouse SQL is not the first language that data engineers and analysts reach for when building analyses. 
```

> HogQL is our SQL dialect, a fork of ClickHouse SQL. It's great for fast, interactive product analytics queries that PostHog was built around. But it's not ideal for data warehouse work.

Reviewer 2: 1. If we get rid of the `## How the original warehouse worked, and why it didn't` heading, we'll need to bump these up.
2. I'd also recommend adding the SQL bit to the title to make it more skimmable

(maybe want to combine with Eric's comment above)

```suggestion
### Problem 1: HogQL, our SQL dialect

It's a fork of ClickHouse SQL that's great for fast, interactive product analytics queries that PostHog was built around. But it's not ideal for data warehouse work.
```

> Data engineers come in with SQL knowledge from a handful of popular engines. These dialects have market demand, good documentation, and an ecosystem where learning the dialect has career value. ClickHouse SQL doesn't make a data engineer's job meaningfully better or make them more employable.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Data engineers come in with SQL knowledge from a handful of popular engines. These dialects have market demand, good documentation, and an ecosystem of tools.
```

> The answer: to make HogQL good enough for data engineers, we'd need to treat it as a first-class product. Better error messages, smarter suggestions, serious LLM completions, deep documentation. That's a significant investment, and we'd still end up with something most data engineers wouldn't want to use.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The answer: to make HogQL good enough for data engineers, we'd need to treat it as a first-class product. Better error messages, smarter suggestions, serious LLM completions, deep documentation. That's a significant investment, and while we've continued to improve the language for in app use, we needed to rethink what data engineers would feel at home using.
```

### Problem 2: ClickHouse as a query engine

> ClickHouse is excellent at what it was designed for. We use it internally and have built a lot on top of it. But it has gaps when you use it as a data warehouse query engine.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph is vague, can we get more specific? What is it designed for? What have we built on top of it? The "using it internally" is a bit obvious" too.

**No cost-based query optimizer.** ClickHouse is unmatched when you hand-craft queries to match your schema. But data engineers expect to write declarative SQL and let the engine figure out the execution plan, which is how every major warehouse works. ClickHouse doesn't do this well enough.

**S3/Parquet support took a long time to mature.** Hive partitioning only landed in version 25.8. Predicate pushdown still has rough edges, and partitioned Parquet performance lags where we need it.

> **Query consistency across versions.** We've seen ClickHouse change query results between releases, or based on which settings were enabled. Our test suite catches this for our own queries, but we can't test every shape of customer data and query a warehouse needs to handle.

Reviewer 2: Just changing up formatting a bit
```suggestion
- **No cost-based query optimizer.** ClickHouse is unmatched when you hand-craft queries to match your schema. But data engineers expect to write declarative SQL and let the engine figure out the execution plan, which is how every major warehouse works. ClickHouse doesn't do this well enough.

- **S3/Parquet support took a long time to mature.** Hive partitioning only landed in version 25.8. Predicate pushdown still has rough edges, and partitioned Parquet performance lags where we need it.

- **Query consistency across versions.** We've seen ClickHouse change query results between releases, or based on which settings were enabled. Our test suite catches this for our own queries, but we can't test every shape of customer data and query a warehouse needs to handle.
```

> **ClickHouse Inc.'s roadmap.** More features are getting reserved for ClickHouse Cloud. DuckDB's governance, MIT licensed, and independence, gives us more confidence in its long-term trajectory.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

Reviewer 2: +1

### Problem 3: Multi-tenancy

This one is structural. PostHog's ClickHouse cluster is optimised for fast, interactive queries, the kind a user fires off in a browser and expects an answer to within seconds or minutes.

> Data warehouse queries don't work like that. A modelling job can run for hours. Sometimes days. Running those workloads on a shared multi-tenant cluster would have unpredictable knock-on effects across the entire platform — and "unpredictable" is not a word you want associated with your customers' data infrastructure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Data warehouse queries don't work like that. A modeling job can run for hours. Sometimes days. Running those workloads on a shared multi-tenant cluster would have unpredictable knock-on effects across the entire platform — and "unpredictable" is not a word you want associated with your customers' data infrastructure.
```

## The bet: DuckDB

We needed a query engine with a cost-based optimizer, modern S3/Parquet support, a SQL dialect that data engineers want to use, and an ownership model that gives us confidence in its future. DuckDB checks all of those boxes.

DuckDB came out of the Database Architectures Group at CWI Amsterdam, the same academic environment that produced MonetDB. It has one of the most carefully designed query optimizers of any OLAP engine. Its SQL dialect is derived from PostgreSQL, which means it's immediately familiar to anyone who's worked with Postgres, including most of our early warehouse customers. And unlike our other options, it's governed by the DuckDB Foundation and MIT licensed. None of the features we depend on are going to get locked behind a cloud tier.

> There's also the ecosystem. DuckDB has an extension model, you can add capabilities without forking the codebase or going through a painful UDF deployment process. It's the SQLite of the OLAP world, which sounds diminutive but is actually the highest compliment I can give it. It just works, and it's something data engineers want to use.

Reviewer: Should we mention briefly here that part of the bet includes ducklake, so that storage isn't limited by what duckdb natively offers?

> There's also the ecosystem. DuckDB has an extension model, you can add capabilities without forking the codebase or going through a painful UDF deployment process. It's the SQLite of the OLAP world, which sounds diminutive but is actually the highest compliment I can give it. It just works, and it's something data engineers want to use.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
There's also the ecosystem. DuckDB has an extension model, you can add capabilities without forking the codebase or going through a painful UDF deployment process. It has out of the box support for all the popular data catalogs and the team behind DuckDB has built Ducklake, a novel take on the existing catalogs.
```

## What we've built on top of DuckDB

> Deciding on DuckDB was step one. The hard part was the architecture.

Reviewer 2: I hate to do this again, but we can tighten this up a lot by dropping this section.  
- The first paragraph follows from the previous section. If we have all these problems, we need something that solves them. 
- The second paragraph is just a bit boring, I think we can assume if you've made it this far/care about data warehouses, you at least have some basic knowledge of what DuckDB is. 
- The third paragraph we can blend into the section below. 

```suggestion
## We've rebuilt on top of DuckDB

We needed a query engine with none of these problems and found that (and more) in DuckDB. The hard part was getting the architecture right.
```

The obvious move, one shared DuckDB instance, doesn't work. We needed single-tenant isolation: one DuckDB instance per organisation, so a long-running job for one customer can't impact anyone else. Here's what the new managed warehouse looks like:

- **Fully single-tenant DuckDB instances:** Every organisation gets their own. It's not shared with anyone else.

> - **A lifecycle service:** Instances sleep when idle and wake up when a query arrives. Wake time is under 300ms, you're billed for what you use, not for idle time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **A lifecycle service:** Instances sleep when idle and wake up when a query arrives. 
```

- **A Postgres Wire protocol endpoint:** Most modern data stack tooling speaks Postgres, so does our warehouse. You connect with `psql`, point your BI tool at it, wire up PostHog Code or Claude via MCP, and it just works. We translate the Postgres catalog so your tools can introspect the schema, and queries run as DuckDB SQL.

> - **DuckHog:** This is the part I'm most excited about. DuckHog is a DuckDB extension that lets you point local compute at your warehouse data. You import it, connect to your S3-backed data lake, and then pull subsets of data locally to work with using DuckDB, pandas, polars, or whatever you prefer, then write results back to your warehouse. For agents that want to iterate quickly on data, this is a better pattern than sending every query to the cluster: grab a subset, run fast local loops, go back out for more data if needed.

Reviewer 2: This might be the spot where we blend in some of the talk about extension, but this bullet is already quite long:

> There's also the ecosystem. DuckDB has an extension model, you can add capabilities without forking the codebase or going through a painful UDF deployment process. It's the SQLite of the OLAP world, which sounds diminutive but is actually the highest compliment I can give it. It just works, and it's something data engineers want to use.

> - **Kubernetes orchestration:** A Kubernetes operator manages the CRDs that define each customer's warehouse. A proxy and queue layer sits in front, routing queries and handling the handshake with the lifecycle service.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```
probably can keep this out. It's implicit in the lifecycle handling above

- **DuckLake as our catalog:** Underneath this is DuckLake, which separates storage from compute. Your data lives in S3 independent of whatever's querying it, so we're not locked into DuckDB forever. If a better engine comes along, we can swap it in without touching how the data is stored.

> ## All your data, ready in PostHog

Reviewer: Should prob mention scalability here - how much data can we store and query against? Is this built for GB size data? TB? PB?

Reviewer 5: definitely PB scale, but honestly I'd keep this out for now just because I don't think it will actually impress anyone. I'd maybe talk about how we use it ourselves at our scale and most of our customers will understand what that means.

> ## All your data, ready in PostHog

Reviewer 2: For this section, I'm mostly curious, how is this any different than what we had before. What you've written here can seemingly apply to the old warehouse too.

Reviewer 4: You're right. It is quite similar. The differentiating factor of the rebuild is really in the compute isolation which is mentioned in the previous section. I think the purpose of this section is to just reinforce and market the convenience of the warehouse vision

One of the things that makes this different from spinning up a standalone warehouse: we're already mirroring all PostHog event data to S3, partitioned by organisation. When you spin up your managed warehouse instance, your event data is there. You didn't have to set up a pipeline.

The same goes for data sources you want to connect — Stripe, Postgres, whatever external systems you're syncing — all of it lands in your warehouse, queryable through the same endpoint as your PostHog events.

> We still support HogQL for PostHog product queries, funnels, cohorts, and retention analysis. But for warehouse queries, you write DuckDB SQL, picking the right tool for the right query, and they both have access to the same data.

Reviewer: You can query the warehouse with HogQL, can't you? The duck/postgres flavor?

Reviewer 2: yeah, this is confusing

## Good data = good context for agents

> The data warehouse is the context layer for everything we're building to allow PostHog users to lean into AI-driven product development.

Reviewer 2: tighter and it doesn't necessarily need to be the stuff we are building, it's everything even beyond posthog
```suggestion
The data warehouse is the context layer for AI-driven product development.
```

> PostHog Code works by taking signals from your product — including failed queries, error patterns, conversion drops, and user behaviour — and routing them to agents that can act on them. That loop requires the data to be trustworthy, complete, and in one place. If your product data is in PostHog, your revenue data is in another warehouse, and your user data is somewhere else, any agent working with those signals is working with an incomplete picture.

Reviewer 2: I think this should focus beyond PostHog Code and talk more about how the warehouse expands what context is available easily. It's relevant for other "products" (like Slack and MCP too).

Like PostHog captures a lot and a ton of people are already using our MCP to get all of that, but they're also wiring up other products (sources) that might not have an MCP or good querying or whatever. You want all this context for your agents (or PostHog's) to make good decisions. The warehouse makes this easy. 

Maybe this is beyond the scope, but there is also security/access control reasons to leverage the data warehouse for data. You don't need to manage access controls for everyone for every platform, you don't need to give everyone access to Stripe for examples, just sync specific tables and let people query through PostHog.

---

> title: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse and how it unlocks self-driving products

Reviewer 2: Thinking more, I think we should drop self-driving from the title. We only get to it at the very end and people aren't really familiar with the concept yet. When we write about "context warehousing" we can connect it to self-driving better. 

One of these might be more interesting to people into warehousing and these tools. This is better HackerNews/dev newsletter bait while the existing title feels more just like an announcement (which is less likely to get shared)

```suggestion
title: Why we rebuilt on data warehouse on DuckDB over ClickHouse
```

```suggestion
title: Why we migrated our data warehouse from ClickHouse to DuckDB
```

> date: 2026-06-17

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2026-06-25
```

rootPage: /blog
sidebar: Blog
showTitle: true
hideAnchor: true
author:
    - eric-duong
featuredImage: >-
    https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/How_dirty_is_your_data_92fe322136.png
featuredImageType: full
category: General
tags:
    - Data warehouse
    - Infrastructure
    - PostHog news
seo:
    metaTitle: Why we rebuilt our data warehouse and how it unlocks self-driving products
    metaDescription: "PostHog rebuilt its data warehouse on DuckDB, moving away from ClickHouse to give data engineers the tools they actually want — and to power the next generation of AI-driven product development."
---

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

PostHog's original data warehouse had a single goal: delay the moment a company needs to hire their first data engineer.

It did that job for a 20-person company where the CEO is still running their own SQL queries. You could build dashboards, answer business questions, and skip the six-month data infrastructure project.

> The problem was the next chapter for these companies, here's the pattern we kept seeing:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The problem was the next chapter for these companies. Here's the pattern we kept seeing:
```

- Company grows, product is going well, and PostHog is the primary tool for understanding how the business is doing.
- They hit 30-50 people and data questions get more complex, they hire a data engineer.
- Data engineer looks at what's available in PostHog, can't do everything they need, and starts exporting data to an external warehouse.
- PostHog becomes middleware. Events go in, data goes out. The center of gravity for understanding the business moves somewhere else.

So what was stopping data engineers from being happy on our platform?

### Challenge 1: Multi-tenancy

> We've built PostHog as a multitenant system on a Clickhouse cluster that we host. This is great for most of our analytical queries that we make because we expect that most of the queries being made are generated by a user at a browser and because of that we can expect that we will return data relatively quickly (on the order of minutes). Data warehouses have entirely different expectations. It’s not atypical for a modeling query in a warehouse to run for hours or even days. This is just not something we can do on our multi-tenant CH cluster. We restart nodes. Nodes restart themselves. We optimize for querying relatively hot data. The prospect of an unbounded number of queries hitting our very not elastic CH cluster is basically untenable. This would eventually cause problems across our entire application.

Reviewer 2: Making this a bit more readable, tightening it up.

Also, added the schedule bit to try to hint that it's not being done by "a user in a browser" more heavily. 

```suggestion
We've built PostHog as a multitenant system on a Clickhouse cluster that we host. This is great for most  analytical queries because we can expect them to:

1. Be done by a user in a browser
2. Return data relatively quickly (on the order of minutes). 

Data warehouses have entirely different expectations. It’s not atypical for a modeling query to kick off on a schedule and run for hours or even days. This is just not something we can do on our multi-tenant CH cluster as we restart nodes and nodes restart themselves. 

We optimize for querying relatively hot data. The prospect of an unbounded number of queries hitting our very not elastic CH cluster is basically untenable and would eventually cause problems across our entire application.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Challenge 2: ClickHouse as a query engine

> We use Clickhouse internally for the parts of our product where it really shines: fast, scalable analytics over large event datasets, with schemas and queries designed specifically around its strengths. All of our analytics data is stored in ClickHouse and that use case isn’t changing; the challenge our users are facing is using ClickHouse as a general-purpose warehouse, where they need lots of sources connected, modelling flexibility, schema changes, and mutations.

Reviewer 2: The ordering of this paragraph is a little awk at points so trying to clean up

```suggestion
ClickHouse shines when used for fast, scalable analytics over large event datasets, with schemas and queries designed around its strengths. This is how we use it for all of our analytics data and that isn't changing.

But ClickHouse struggles as a general-purpose warehouse, where users need many connected sources, modeling flexibility, schema changes, and mutations. Here's why:
```

- **No cost-based query optimizer.** ClickHouse is unmatched when you hand-craft queries to match your schema. But data engineers expect to write declarative SQL and let the engine figure out the execution plan. 

> - **S3/Deltalake/Iceberg support took a long time to mature.** We wanted to leverage Clickhouse's query engine to query data catalog's however our success was limited and we mostly had to rely on raw Parquet without the benefits of catalogued data.

Reviewer 2: I assume data catalogs is not possessive? 

```suggestion
- **S3/Deltalake/Iceberg support took a long time to mature.** We wanted to leverage Clickhouse's query engine to query data catalogs. Our success was limited; we mostly had to rely on raw Parquet without the benefits of catalogued data.
```

- **Query consistency across versions.** We've seen ClickHouse change query results between releases, or based on which settings were enabled. Our test suite catches this for our own queries, but we can't test every shape of customer data and query a warehouse needs to handle.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Challenge 3: Data tooling

> As companies mature, their data operations and use cases often become more sophisticated. We experienced this first hand at PostHog while building out our revenue reporting. What started as a handful of queries and dashboards quickly became a maze of logic and context shared across multiple people. While we instinctively wanted to reach for dbt to model our data and adhere to best practices in managing our queries, we simply could not expose direct connections to the Clickhouse cluster without deepening the challenges of multitenancy. On top of that, our query language, HogQL is not a language that's already widely supported in the ecosystem. Despite being able to conveniently centralize our business data alongside PostHog event data, the lack of data tooling in our v1 of data warehousing left us and many more sophisticated data teams without long term confidence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As companies mature, their data operations and use cases become more sophisticated. We experienced this first hand at PostHog while building out our revenue reporting. 

What started as a handful of queries and dashboards quickly became a maze of logic and context shared across multiple people. We wanted to reach for dbt to model our data and adhere to best practices in managing our queries, but we simply could not expose direct connections to the Clickhouse cluster without deepening the challenges of multitenancy. On top of that, our query language HogQL is not a language that's already widely supported. 

Despite being able to centralize our business data alongside PostHog event data, the lack of data tooling in our v1 of data warehousing left us and many more sophisticated data teams without long term confidence.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## We've rebuilt on top of DuckDB

> We needed a query engine with none of these problems and found that (and more) in DuckDB. The hard part was getting the architecture right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We needed a query engine with none of these problems and found that (and more) in [DuckDB](/blog/duckdb-vs-clickhouse). The hard part was getting the architecture right. 

Here's what we built:
```

> - **Fully single-tenant DuckDB instances:** Every organisation gets their own. It's not shared with anyone else.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Fully single-tenant DuckDB instances:** Every organization gets their own. It's not shared with anyone else.
```

- **A lifecycle service:** Instances sleep when idle and wake up when a query arrives. 
- **A Postgres Wire protocol endpoint:** Most modern data stack tooling speaks Postgres, so does our warehouse. You connect with `psql`, point your BI tool at it, wire up PostHog Code or Claude via MCP, and it just works. We translate the Postgres catalog so your tools can introspect the schema, and queries run as DuckDB SQL.

> - **DuckHog:** DuckHog is a DuckDB extension that lets you point local compute at your warehouse data. Pull a subset locally, work with it using DuckDB, pandas, polars, or whatever you prefer, then write results back. For agents iterating quickly on data, this is a better pattern than sending every query to the cluster. It's possible because of DuckDB's extension model; add capabilities without forking the codebase or painful UDF deployments. The SQLite of the OLAP world, it just works.

Reviewer 2: Do we have links for these anywhere?

- **DuckLake as our catalog:** Underneath this is DuckLake, which separates storage from compute. Your data lives in S3 independent of whatever's querying it, so we're not locked into DuckDB forever.

## All your data, ready in PostHog

> One of the things that makes this different from spinning up a standalone warehouse: we're already mirroring all PostHog event data to S3, partitioned by organisation. When you spin up your managed warehouse instance, your event data is there. You didn't have to set up a pipeline.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
What makes this different from spinning up a standalone warehouse is that we're already mirroring all PostHog event data to S3, partitioned by organization. When you spin up your managed warehouse instance, your event data is there, no pipeline setup needed.
```

> The same goes for data sources you want to connect — Stripe, Postgres, whatever external systems you're syncing — all of it lands in your warehouse, queryable through the same endpoint as your PostHog events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same goes for data sources you want to connect – [Stripe](/docs/data-warehouse/sources/stripe), [Postgres](/docs/data-warehouse/sources/postgres), whatever external systems you're syncing – all of it lands in your warehouse, queryable through the same endpoint as your PostHog events.
```

> We still support HogQL for everything within PostHog. But you're free to connect any of your data tools to the warehouse as you'd expect with any other database.

Reviewer 2: I know we said HogQL earlier, but we should just say SQL here. 
```suggestion
We still support SQL for everything within PostHog. But you're free to connect any of your data tools to the warehouse as you'd expect with any other database.
```

## Good data = good context for agents

> We believe the data warehouse is the context layer for AI-driven product development.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The data warehouse is the context layer for AI-driven product development.
```

> PostHog works by taking signals from your product — including failed queries, error patterns, conversion drops, and user behaviour — and all your external data from places like Stripe, Postgres, and your CRM, and routing them to agents that can act on them. That loop requires the data to be trustworthy, complete, and in one place. If your product data is in PostHog, your revenue data is in a warehouse, and your user data is somewhere else, any agent working with those signals is working with an incomplete picture.

Reviewer 2: "PostHog works by..." is weird phrasing for this sentence. We also don't explain the entire loop (shipping + evaluation). 

It's also not impossible to piece it together, just inefficient. 

```suggestion
Your failed queries, error patterns, conversion drops, and user behaviour as well as all your external data from places like Stripe, Postgres, and your CRM become [signals](/docs/self-driving/signals) and [context](/docs/self-driving/context) agents can act on. For agents to be effective, this data must be trustworthy, complete, and in one place. If your product data is in PostHog, your revenue data is in a warehouse, and your user data is somewhere else, any agent working with those signals is working with an incomplete picture or burning tokens to piece it together. 
```
